# Interview Questions

Q: What is AWS IAM, and why is it important?

A: AWS IAM (Identity and Access Management) is a service provided by Amazon Web Services that helps you control access to your AWS resources. It allows you to manage user identities, permissions, and policies. IAM is important because it enhances security by ensuring that only authorized individuals or entities have access to your AWS resources, helping you enforce the principle of least privilege and maintain a secure environment.

Q: What is the difference between IAM users and IAM roles?

A: IAM users represent individual people or entities that need access to your AWS resources. They have their own credentials and are typically associated with long-term access. On the other hand, IAM roles are used to grant temporary access to AWS resources, usually for applications or services. Roles have associated policies and can be assumed by trusted entities to access resources securely.

Q: What are IAM policies, and how do they work?

A: IAM policies are JSON documents that define permissions. They specify what actions are allowed or denied on AWS resources and can be attached to IAM users, groups, or roles. Policies control access by matching the actions requested by a user or entity with the actions allowed or denied in the policy. If a requested action matches an allowed action in the policy, access is granted; otherwise, it is denied.

Q: What is the principle of least privilege, and why is it important in IAM?

A: The principle of least privilege states that users should be granted only the permissions necessary to perform their tasks and nothing more. It is important in IAM because it minimizes the risk of unauthorized access and limits the potential damage that could be caused by a compromised account. Following the principle of least privilege helps maintain a secure environment by ensuring that users have only the permissions they need to perform their job responsibilities.

Q: What is an AWS managed policy?

A: An AWS managed policy is a predefined policy created and managed by AWS. These policies cover common use cases and provide predefined permissions for specific AWS services or actions. AWS managed policies are maintained and updated by AWS, ensuring they stay up to date with new AWS services and features. They can be attached to IAM users, groups, or roles in your AWS account.

Q: what is inline policy?
ans: An inline policy is a policy created for a single IAM identity (a user, user group, or role). Inline policies maintain a strict one-to-one relationship between a policy and an identity

Q: what is customer managed policy?
ans: You can create standalone policies in your own AWS account that you can attach to principal entities (IAM users, IAM groups, and IAM roles). You create these customer managed policies for your specific use cases, and you can change and update them as often as you like. 

ExecutionRole:
  Type:AWS:: IAM:Role
  Properties:
    AssumeRolePolicyDocument:                                -------> This defines a trust policy, which determines which entities (like AWS services) can assume the role.
      Version: '2012-10-17"                                  -----> Specifies the version of the policy language to use, here, 2012-10-17 is the default for IAM policies.
      Statement:                                             -----> Defines one or more statements (rules) in the policy.
        - Effect: Allow                                      -----> the Principal is the entity that can assume the IAM role.
          Principal: {service: [lambda.amazonaws.com]}
          Action: ['sts:AssumeRole']                         ----->When sts:AssumeRole is included in a role's trust policy, it allows the specified principal (e.g., Lambda service) to assume the role and receive temporary security credentials (access key, secret access key, and session token) with the permissions defined in that role.
   Path:"/"
   ManagedPolicyARNS:
        iam:aws:policy/service-role/AWSLambdaVPCaccessExecution
   Policies:
      - PolicyName: allow s3 access
        Version: 2012-10-17
        Statement:
          -Effect: Allow
           Action:
             - 's3:GetObject'
           Resource:
             - "*"
